---
title: Retina and Web Real Estate
layout: post
author: Andy McMillan
synopsis: Something!
---

Yesterday, after Apple [announced][keynote] their first [Retina Display laptop][laptop] with with a resolution of 2880x1800, I thought that it would probably have a logical resolution of 1440x900, at twice the pixel density. That was confirmed by Jason Snell, reporting for [Macworld][macworld]:

> And then there's the display, a mindblowing 2880-by-1800-pixel screen that looks like a 1440-by-900 model--except for the fact that there are four pixels for every one on the older display.

Let's repeat that. <q>Looks like a 1440-by-900 model.</q> Non-retina 15'' Macbook Pros have resolutions of 1440x900 or 1680x1050, and the 13'' Macbook Air has 1440x900. All these 1440x900 displays, retina or not, have the *exact same screen real-estate*[^fn-higher]. 

## Real Estate

What does this mean? All UI elements, text, and images will have the exact same physical size as before but — in some cases — extremely sharper. For people who work mostly code, the 15'' Retina Display has the exact same real estate as a 13'' Macbook Air. Exact same number of characters per line, no extra room for splitting the screen. Just sharper text.

With the same real estate, the biggest benefit comes to people who work mostly with images or video. The physical canvas size remains the same, but now it can display four times more pixels without going under 100% zoom:

> It's quite funny to view a Final Cut Pro interface with roughly a quarter of the screen taken up with a video preview, only to realize that the video is playing back at full, native 1080p resolution with plenty of room to spare.

The details on how these screens will work for designing both retina and non-retina interfaces remains to be seen, but I'm sure these new laptops will be an immediate buy for iPhone and iPad interface designers.

## The Web

As news of the Retina Display spread on Twitter, people began to get excited with the impressive number of 2880x1800 pixels. However, let's not forget that the web isn't retina yet, so while the browser and text on the web will be extremely sharp, the non-text part of the web may not. Snell writes:

> Web pages display with crisp text but, as on the third-generation iPad, most images on those pages are noticeably jaggy.

*Images* doesn't only mean *pictures*, but also all web interfaces composed using raster images[^fn-images]. All developers, web and desktop, need to upgrade their interfaces if they want them to look great on these displays. Content producers everywhere will face the same challenge[^fn-challenge]. Recent history repeats itself, but now at an even bigger scale. That's quite a challenge.

## The Future

Finally, let's not forget a few facts about this computer.

* It only comes in 15''. Everywhere I go, I see people using 13'' Macbook Pros or the latest Macbook Air. So it's around the same dimensions as non-retina 15'' Macbook Pros, but as thin as a Macbook Air (at the thickest side).
* It's lighter than 15'' MBPs, but as heavy as the current 13'' MBP. This is no Macbook Air in terms of portability.
* It *starts* at $2199. It's not a consumer product, it's a Pro machine.

It's an expensive laptop that will, for now, appeal to a minority of people, both in terms of portability and price. But it's also an exercise in futurology from Apple. John Gruber [put it][gruber] best:

> Best to compare it to the original MacBook Air from 2008. The first Air was expensive and not for everyone, but it showed the future of Apple’s (and, really, the industry’s) portables. That’s what the new 15-inch MacBook Pro is: the future of portable Macs.

I played devil's advocate, but I can't wait for a 13'' cheaper version of it.

[^fn-higher]: The non-retina 15'' 1680x1050 Macbook Pro has *more* screen real estate than the 15'' retina display.

[^fn-images]: As opposed to using SVG or CSS3 properties.

[^fn-challenge]: Think image-heavy news websites, or even Facebook and Flickr. How long it will take for them to upgrade, if ever?

[keynote]: http://www.apple.com/apple-events/june-2012/
[laptop]: http://www.apple.com/macbook-pro/
[macworld]: http://www.macworld.com/article/1167229/hands_on_with_the_retina_macbook_pro.html
[gruber]: http://daringfireball.net/2012/06/three_takeaways_wwdc